---
layout: post
title: My 2015 in Books
categories: [books]
tags: [Books, Personal]
published: True

---
This is the first year I've recorded and summed up the books I read. This is primarily to improve my own recollection (what was that book that said that thing I'm trying to remember...), but I'm happy to share my thoughts.

### Non Fiction - Business
My focus in my business reading this year was to segway from last year's focus on empowering my peers to this year's focus of executing as a leader. I feel the dramatic changes in my professional life this year slowed my developemnt as a leader, and this was limited by the number of books I read relative to 2014.

* **Act Like a Leader, Think Like a Leader** (by Herminia Ibarra)
	* The thesis is that people become leaders by doing leadership work. Early in our careers, we accomplish things within the confines of our specialty groups. We make the transition to managing the work of others, usually in domains where we are experts. But a different skillset is needed when we move onto broader leadership roles. The focus of this book is on accelerating last transition.
* **Meaningful: The Story of Ideas That Fly** (by Bernadette Jiwa)
	* The thesis is that no business thrives unless it creates a difference for people who are willing to exchange money, time or loyalty for the value that difference brings to their lives.
* **Multipliers: How the Best Leaders Make Everyone Smarter** (by Liz Wiseman)
	* The thesis is that it is the job of a good manager to make their people smarter, and they do this by attracting smart people and fostering a safe environment for ideas to be debated.

### Non Fiction - Other
The pace of change in my personal and professional life in 2015 began to tax my ability to adapt quickly. In response I sought out books to improve my framework for responding to change. Specifically, since my birthday I chose to focus on compassion.

* **Lovingkindness: The Revolutionary Art of Happiness** (by Sharon Salzberg)
* **Mindfulness in Plain English** (by Henepola Gunaratana)

### Fiction
While I read fiction for some degree of escapism, I also hope each book has at least one interesting idea. Old Man's War was interesting for its exploration of the psychological impact of placing you consciousness in a new body and new social model. Cinder and Scarlet were interesting for exploring abstract forms of discrimination. Red Rising and Golden Sun were interesting for their exploration of an abstract caste model. Finally, while Shantaram didn't offer me interesting ideas, it is beautifully detail and explores the life of a felon who escapes Australia to live in the slums of Bombay. With the exception of Shantaram, all of the novels were suggested from my wife's large library of young adult science fiction. I would probably benefit from exploring a more broad set of recommendations. 

* **Citizen X** (by Thomas DePrima)
* **Cinder (The Lunar Chronicles, #1)** (by Marissa Meyer)
* **The Eyre Affair (Thursday Next, #1)** (by Jasper Fforde)
* **Golden Son (Red Rising, #2)** by (by Pierce Brown)
* **The Martian** (by Andy Weir)
* **Old Man's War (Old Man's War, #1)** (by John Scalzi)
* **Red Rising (The Red Rising Trilogy, Book 1)** (by Pierce Brown)
* **Scarlet (The Lunar Chronicles, #2)** (by Marissa Meyer)
* **Shantaram: A Novel** (by Gregory David Roberts)
