---
layout: post
title: Step 2: Testing the assumptions
categories: [product management]
tags: [product management journey]
published: False
---

Assumptions from prior post:
| Constraint  					| Embedded Assumption  											| Validate?  	| 
|---							|---															|---	|
| Specialized user segment  	| Context-aware product would work for a specialist   			| No 	| 
| Users in North America speaking US English  	| I will be more successful by going with people I can meet in person and speak to  	| No 	| 
| Text-based chat bot 			| Some interactions are best served with a text interface  		| Yes 	| 
| 								| Targeted users can access / use web-based bot 				| Yes 	| 
| 								| Targeted users want a bot										| Yes 	| 
| Context focused				| People want context in their computer interactions			| Yes	|
| >1000 people experience the problem being solved	| A significant population experiences the problem I'm solving and would benefit from the way I solve it 	| Yes	|


1) Status updates are a problem, whether it is a project manager, leader, or even conference call participant. 
2) Finding the right information at the right time, is a challenge affecting everyone.

# Using Jobs to Be Done to define features, customers, and market potential
There are a few ways you could define the focus of the product, but my preference is to:
(1) Look at what the product could potentially do;
(2) Find where in the universe, this could solve a problem;
(3) Prioritize and value the opportunity

# Questions:
Customers always come first


1) Is there a market in your gap? (GA page 38-39)
- Is it pervasive? (Who specifically has the problem, and does it affect lots of people?)
- Is it complex? (Are they able to solve it themselves, or can someone else solve it?)
- Is it valuable? (How painful is the problem, and would they be willing to part with hard cash to solve it?)
- Is it profitable? (Will it cost me more or less than the value of the problem to solve it?)

2) Does the consumer have a motivation to buy?
3) Want versus need
4) Is the product a real world need? ("The benefit (so what)" because "Feautre (The What)")

The MVP is to learn whether the broader product vision is sound

Once they find a product meets their need really well, they can't live without it

Find the metric that matters?

--- Hinten - "Create products that people love by validating your idea first"
Here is a three step process you can use to validate ideas:
- Create a problem hypothesis from your idea
##
You don’t want to get stuck creating a solution and then searching for the problem that it solves. This situation is most common when people decide to solve a problem that they have themselves. You have to make sure enough other people have the problem too.

When creating a problem hypothesis start by describing the group of people you are targeting and what problem you think they have. It’s a simple format:

[Group of people] have a problem [their problem]

##
- Setup a system to pull people to you
##
Once you’ve created a problem hypothesis you’ll know the exact type of person who you want to reach and a high-level idea of what you want to learn.

Find the pattern of pain
##

- Next post -
Kano Model (GA pg 58)
Would the feature delight your customer?
Persona

Here's a hypothetical to explain the importance of working with qualitative and quantitative data:

-- Customer Questions?